but what is the left now they're Pro
censorship right
they are victimhood culture they are all
about moral righteousness they're taught
that claiming to be offended results in
a moral victory in politics it's really
important that we compare something real
to something else that's real that we're
not falling into the trap of comparing a
blueprint to an actual building
you can't contrast something ideal to
something real it's very misleading so
for example when you talk to communists
very often they will state to you some
particular problem they object to in
capitalism for example wage inequality
they'll say they morally opposed
capitalism because of the extreme wage
inequality between a factory worker and
a factory manager someone in management
now if in reply you point out well have
you examined how factories actually
operated in the Soviet Union or in China
or in Cuba or North Korea have you
looked at the reality of wage inequality
in common societies they'll often get
angry and response to this and say no no
no you don't understand I'm not
comparing the reality of capitalism to
the reality of communism I'm comparing
the reality of capitalism to this ideal
but we can't do that you can compare a
blueprint to a blueprint you can compare
an actual building to an actual building
but when we're comparing left and right
whether we're comparing communist and
capitalist or within the Canadian
spectrum the moderate left within Canada
the moderate right within Canada it's
really important to keep grounded in the
sense of comparing one thing that's real
one thing that's important else that's
empirically real
I think the first false step that
Lyndsey Shepard takes here is that she
is comparing the reality of the left and
the left as she's encountered at over
social media in the rough and tumble of
slander and defamation and sniping and
infighting and nasty comments on Twitter
she's compared that reality to some
unstated ideal on the side something
that is not left she's already said she
doesn't identify as a conservative
it's not clear she identifies as a
liberal or a centrist she hasn't made up
her mind yet but she's gonna she's gonna
compare the left soon that's not on the
left and she lists off in this video
what she considers the sins and evils of
the left without ever stopping to think
of to what extent or in what ways are
these things uniquely leftist or even
disproportionately or especially leftist
there's so there's this victimhood
mentality they don't believe in personal
responsibility they are completely
intolerant of diversity of thought
intolerant they are humorless people
they want to make society boring and
they want to make it so that no one can
do so much as make a joke if you are not
on their side 100% they will slander you
mercilessly and it'd be funny if it
worked
such a dirty trick so she claims people
on the left are censorious that they
insist on censorship on restriction of
freedom of speech have you spent much
time in a Southern Baptist Church lately
have you spent much time in any
conservative Catholic setting how about
conservative Buddhism in Japan have you
hung out with conservatives who identify
as n Buddhists from Japan how about
conservative Islam how about straight up
conservative atheists you really
sincerely think you're making this
contrast between the levels of
censorship and the type of censorship
you experience with you know left
wingers on Twitter I think that's
basically what we're talking about here
in contrast to what in contrast to what
unstated ideal are you complaining about
something that's that's real now look I
want to catch you guys up with with Who
I am many of you people watch this video
this first time you've ever seen my face
or heard my name on the other hand
regular viewers of my channel it's
probably your first time ever hearing
the the name Lindsey Shepard or seeing
her face so really briefly about who she
is Who I am
Lindsey Shepard is the latest
personality to emerge to internet
stardom out of a fleeting controversy on
a university campus in Canada who did
that before notably Jordan Peterson
there was
there was a really meaningless
controversy on a university campus in
Canada with Jordan Peterson
he started appearing in television
interviews and newspaper headlines and
old media led the way new media flow
behind and he became a an Internet
superstar of tremendous scale and scope
and influence Lindsay Shepard seems to
be on that same path there was a
completely meaningless controversy at
her campus not even worth describing
that controversy led to TV interviews TV
coverage newspaper headlines and now I
noticed in three days
a hundred and seventy thousand views on
the first video ever posted to her
channel she's got a real platform now to
state her views on the inner okay the
main thing I'm known for politically
here on the internet is talking about
vegan politics what's going on with him
veganism I'm interested in veganism
ecology wildlife management I actually
have a bunch of other interests my
University Breeze in political science
I'm also interested in First Nations and
indigenous people and a bunch of other
people but this is the main thing I'm
known for in the same way that Lindsay
Shepard uncritically and unthinkingly
singles out examples of people on the
internet defaming her from the left and
unthinkingly just attributes this to the
left as if it's a problem on the left
and is not a problem with conservatives
or is not a problem with with mainstream
the rules as if it's only a problem that
leftists say that she is right-wing when
when she's not and I it would just be
impossible through Google to find
examples of conservatives claiming that
Obama is a socialist hint Obama is not a
socialist it would be impossible for me
to find examples of conservatives
claiming that Obama is a communist that
kind of you know hyperbolic miserable do
you think that's hard to find you think
what you're talking about here what
you're complaining about here is a
unique problem with the left or is
especially Provost is in any way more a
problem with the left on Twitter or the
left-wing on YouTube then it is with the
center or the Conservatives I've got to
tell you I mean somebody like Jimmy Dore
Jimmy Dore is very successful here on
YouTube a lot of the time what he's
complaining about is
Lander and defamation from the center
from mainstream representatives of the
Democrat Party mainstream conservatives
people who are not left-wing or
right-wing but still engage in these
types of these types of tactics so try
to make it not okay to talk about issues
like being white okay I want to talk
about those ideas neutrally I don't have
an agenda to push when it comes to that
but I there trying to make it so that
you can't be neutral about it it's
either absorbed the the whole discourse
about white privilege and and you have
to have white guilt otherwise you're
standing beside some white nationalists
okay you must be a white nationalist as
well so you know it and they're trying
to circulate this image of me they're
they're posting it all over social media
just in response to various things like
just to just to spread the image for the
sake of spreading the lie you know long
story short if within this social
context I think you've got to say look
isn't this just a feature of politics
and specifically of politics in this new
era where to some extent everyone has a
voice not just NBC CBS CBC not just a
small number of broadcasters but to some
extent from the grassroots up people can
make their own propaganda and that's
what some people have done to criticize
you Lindsey I understand that some
people have photographed you or they'd
taken a photograph of you standing next
to right-wing extremists neo-nazis and
they've said hey look this is the
reality of who Lindsey Shepherd is she
literally stands with these right-wing
people you you think that that's never
happened it's never happened that the
mayor of Toronto was photographed
shaking hands with the leader of the
Hells Angels biker gang he didn't have
to account for why he was just standing
and talking these people now of course
the Meritor Anto didn't support this
biker gang but he met with and talked to
these people any time someone talks to
their opponents in politics left or
right you think there isn't a problem of
stating and restating your position and
why you talk to these people in what
sense you oppose them what the nature of
the opposition or debate was it ser you
you
think this is a problem you you have
uniquely or especially or that this only
comes and left and not the right this is
profoundly morally incoherent it's
profoundly politically wrong in the same
way that it's wrong when communists
complained to me that inequality between
the factory owners and the factory
workers is only or especially a problem
within capitalism take a good look even
right now in 2018 the reality of factory
workers in North Korea even farm workers
in North Korea even a forestry workers
guys cutting down trees in North Korea
look at the kind of social inequality
that flourishes under under communist
regimes and now we can start talking now
we can talk in a nuanced way in a
comparative way we can also compare
Denmark to England we can compare Italy
to Florida I don't mind it's not as if
this is the only comparison we can make
there are a lot of nuanced than
worthwhile comparisons we can make
globally and I do think that people like
Lindsey Shepard suffer from frankly what
I would call bumpkin ISM I think this is
someone who's never cast the net of her
reading wide enough to think about even
just some of the examples I mentioned
what it's like in terms of the contrast
between conservative and liberal within
Japan what it's like what's the contrast
being conservative and liberal within a
country like Taiwan where the parties
are not even left versus right there are
actually independent pro-independence
versus pro unification and then the the
the familiar traits have left and right
are actually quite hard to pin down
within their political party system what
how does this work in Greece in Italy or
even within communist China it's
baffling but people often refer to
right-wing members of the Communist
Party in China these are the kinds of
debates we get into if you had some
appreciation for this I think you
wouldn't respond to this challenge in
your life Lindsey
by blaming the left and trying to you
know separate yourself in this left from
the left in this way when as you admit
yourself there are fundamental questions
of value and priority that tie you to
the left and where the right the
conservatives will not will not make any
place for you you open by talking about
how much ecology meant to you or how
much it still means to you do you really
think that your priorities your interest
in ecology do you really think you can
plug that in in the Conservative Party
of Canada do you think you can plug that
in with the alt-right you know the
ecologists of the alt-right I don't like
the fact that in Canada so many people
regard ecology as the domain of the left
I really don't I'm not comfortable with
it I do not like the extent to which
people presume the left wing has a
monopoly on ecology and environmental
activism it's deeply disturbing to me
I'm a vegan and I'm not left-wing it's a
big problem in my life but still blast
tax baby this is the reality okay you've
said these were your reasons in the past
for identifying as left and you don't
have something better to replace it with
so if you want to if you want to make
progress we're fine colleagues you can
work within the Canadian system you got
to take a long hard look who can I work
with in the Liberal Party who can I work
with in the Democrat Party who can I
work within the Green Party the answer
may be nobody that's how I feel at the
time but you're gonna if if you care
about ecology those are the car mines
you can have to look to make let's talk
about First Nations you talked a lot
about white guilt in a really kind of
vague and troubling way Lindsay I
they're trying to make it so that you
can't be neutral about it
it's either absorbed the the whole
discourse about white privilege and and
you have to have white guilt otherwise
you're standing beside some white
nationalists okay you must be a white
nationalist as well what do you mean
what do you mean you don't subscribe to
the the white gildner we've got a crisis
going on right now the cree language is
gonna go extinct the mohawk language is
gonna go extinct Ottawa Ottawa is the
name of the capital city of Canada guess
what it's also the name of a language
that's going extinct walk up to a bank
machine put in your card which language
do you want to do business in they're
gonna have Chinese English French maybe
Portuguese Spanish Korean they got all
kinds of languages none of them are
Canadian ones this time you want to do a
bank machine what are we gonna do about
language extinction what are we gonna do
about the unbelievably awful legacy of
terrible crypto genocide all policies of
the Canadian government of First Nations
I also don't think white guilt is a
great framework to address those issues
in but if you care if you want to make
up
the difference you tell me how you could
possibly make that positive difference
by budding up with the outright or even
the Conservative Party and again I wish
the left didn't have a monopoly on these
values I wish I could tell you I had
competing offers from the whole
political spectrum that there were
really great solutions being proposed by
the Conservative Party for how to handle
these issues what to do you want
language Policy First Nations the future
of indigenous peoples sir I wish you
could tell you that it's not true
it the same brutal reality we have to
face up to with ecology we have to face
up to you on these frankly race issues
and in Canada those are the pressing
race issues of our time the legacy of
our colonialist genocidal past and just
straight-up
failed education policies for First
Nations and where we go from here with
our indigenous people and a society that
is built on a parliamentary system that
actively excludes them where they do not
have democratic representation within on
anyone as democratic representation in
Canada's parliamentary system is a
question for another video but all I
know is I do not want to have any part
in this disgusting leftist culture so
Lindsey I want to say I do sympathize
with the situation you're in based on my
own experience with vegan activism I
said earlier people who never seen this
before
you don't know this is my experience
being a voice in the vegan movement I
have been slandered and defamed to win
unbelievable extent by my fellow vegans
sometimes in ways that are minor and
subtle sometimes just whole stories made
up about my private sex life I have
recently I've had people call me a
communist when I'm not even left-wing
there are people who call me right-wing
there are people who lie about my
shmoney specific views on stuff like the
the status of the mentally disabled
people make up specific lies and slander
about specific political views people
make up very vague and generalize about
my moral character about my sex life
it's mind-blowing it's unbelievable and
this happens with Ian veganism you know
a supposedly non-violence ecologically
plugged in and light inform activism
right but what if I responded to that
experience the same way you did
and just said well I'm gonna cut myself
off from begin assume that now I'm going
to just assume I'm gonna compare
something real to something ideal I'm
gonna assume that veganism is really bad
messed up this way and there's some
other movement there's some other form
of activism with it that's way better
whether that's the Conservative Party or
the Liberal Party or the alt-right or
the green person I don't do that okay I
stand my ground i delineate very clearly
where I stand where you know my true
position is where reality stops and
where the defamation starts above all
else when you see yourself as a person
who cares about politics whether you
think of yourself as an activist or a
politician or a lobbyist or an
intellectual a public intellectual
however you think of when you think of
yourself as a person who cares about
politics and you look back at the
history of others who've suffered and
striven for political change whether you
look at Martin Luther King jr. or leader
of the Communist Party of Laos living in
a cave while the u.s. dropped bombs in
the mountains whether you look at the
struggle to abolish slavery struggle for
civil rights struggle for gay rights
when you look at that track record and
then you look in the mirror at these
[ __ ] complaints you're making about
people saying nasty things about you on
Twitter
ask yourself this question who has
suffered less you and I both Lindsey
have suffered we've suffered from people
saying mean things about us the internet
defamation slander we've both suffered
keep it in perspective look at our
Martin Luther King jr. lived and look at
how he died look at how Mahatma Gandhi
lived and how Mahatma Gandhi died Ho Chi
Minh you take your pick
okay the road to making a positive
difference through political change
whether you take examples from the left
right center
gay rights you name it it involves a
whole lot of suffering and when you see
yourself in that historical context
honey you got a really think compared to
them looking at yourself in that context
who has suffered
[Music]